## High level 1.0 requirements

Before we can consider Laye to be in a 1.0 state, the following high level goals need to be accomplished:
- [ ] Formal Laye language design documents. This includes, at minimum, a comprehensive reference for the language itself as well as introductory materials like an overview document, tutorials and how-to guides.
- [ ] A standard library fit for a modern programming language. Ideally with more than what people would expect, like graphics API wrappers or native bindings for popular libraries in similar languages (read: C).
- [ ] Feature-complete dedicated compiler tool. Even as build tools are built around the language, Laye needs a dedicated, easy to use and feature complete compiler executable.
- [ ] Simple, opinionated build tool. The Laye compiler could care less how you use it in your projects, but a "most common path" build tool needs to exist and encourage idiomatic usage of the language. The aism isn't to be restrictive, but encourage the majority of software written in Laye to use the same systems and conventions where possible.
- [ ] Some kind of package manager. This may be integrated into the build tooling, either the tool itself or the library code associated with it, or it could be a separate executable whose results you reference in your build scripts. Either way, programmers want easy access to libraries. While in the short term Laye aims to be a capable source-only language, it will need to support referencing pre-built objects eventually; this may lean the build tooling and/or package manager in different directions depending on needs.
- [ ] A robust code formatter, ideally also opinionated but potentially configurable to an extent. I do like that Go's formatter is very opinionated, but I don't want to drive *too* many people away if this is a nonstarter. Will decide when implementing, most likely.
- [ ] A language server as the primary editor tooling support, with other simpler packages provided to supplement it. You may not always have access to an editor configured for language servers, or may just prefer not to use them, so simple syntax (and potentially semantic) hilighting packages and templates should also be provided without the LSP strings attached.
